um I'm Sam blonde the host of today's
cro confidential episode and we have
just a legendary guest Jonathan vassel
is cro at toast where he has been since
2017 I want to talk a little bit about
this run that you've had Jonathan before
I welcome you to the Pod so Jonathan
joined
2017 toast was a series B company with
20 million in ARR you joined as SVP of
sales
he went through the IPO in
2021 currently cro of the business so
not only has the business just crushed
it over the six years that you've been
there you've also personally crushed it
with a really exciting career
progression now in the C cro seat that
you are in today welcome to the Pod
thank you for doing this and excited to
have you here hey Sam thanks thanks for
having me excited to uh to catch up
today first rule of sales though is to
set expectations and use the word
legendary uh to so uh just like lower
the expectations here a bit um we had a
great run we've got great folks working
for us that's been really like a very uh
kind of primary fundamental of my career
and so all of this I get all the things
you see at toast and and elsewhere are a
product of our team really more than me
so um just want to set it level set a
bit before we get into it amazing well
uh I I like the
uh setting low expectations and overd
delivering and um it's a part of of all
the success stories is you know there's
not one person that is entirely
responsible for um the success of the
business the success of the go to market
organization so much of uh the the
people that we surround ourselves with
uh are uh why businesses ultimately do
well um before we jump in uh let's get
some context on your business I think
most people are familiar with toast but
uh for for anyone it's not and just uh
to get a bit of a deeper understanding
let's start there what is toast yeah so
we're vertical software uh and embeded
embedded payments solution that uh today
focuses on or serves the restaurant
Community here in the US and uh and
abroad across the US I'm sorry Canada
and England and Ireland the UK and in
other markets as well and so we've been
at it toast has been at it um you know
15 16 years Venture back startup one of
the fastest growing software businesses
of all time and um we've got I think we
said today we've got uh 80 85,000
customers across the US in in Canada and
in the UK and I and um we're still in
our early days right so we're one of
those unique businesses a lot of reasons
why toast is unique but um the the tan
that we're that we're servicing is one
of the largest vertical tams in the
world with still you know 85% of the
market left to conquer or to tackle and
and those opportunities are really
really unique uh that's what also what
makes our our job and our role at toast
really challenging and rewarding right
because um you know we think we're in
pretty rare air and um and are excited
for not only you excited about what
we've accomplished certainly in the Run
we've been on but also the runway
ahead awesome well so many things in
there that we we're going to sort of
distill into the first topic uh couple
things that stood out that you mentioned
one you know you join the business at 20
million in ARR you just passed a billion
um so uh sort of unprecedented growth on
the revenue side you also mentioned this
large from a market share perspective
still just getting going as as sort of
you described it um let's start with
customer acquisition strategy I suspect
that toast is going to be uh unque in
the way that you acquire customers given
the sort of um Tam that you're going
after and what what I would think of is
like the nesk worker nature of
restaurants um let's start here how is
your goto Market structure are you
selling in the field do you have an
inside
model what what uh describe yeah sort of
all of the above I I'll start with you
know the um one of the greatest
strengths of our go to market motion
I'll start with is the partnership
between our sales Oran organization and
our marketing organization we are in
lock step and work very very well with
one another to drive growth across the
business and that it starts there right
so my counterpart Kevin Hamilton our CMO
and I work very our teams work very
closely to drive the business um
separate of that I think what we've done
really well and I'll get into the
structure here in a second is we
understand our Tam okay at the deepest
level and we've spent a lot of time
understanding our Market
who um the composition of the restaurant
vertical how they make decisions what's
important all of these things that you
learn ironically uh my boss Aman durang
who's one of our co-founders and our coo
he was the first salesperson he spent
the earlyer selling into restaurants
locally and that that experience is inv
invaluable it really is and what we
learned right and my background is
really an SMB I've been in high growth
uh software as software enabled
businesses uh pretty much my entire
career leading teams that you know sell
things and services into small
businesses and and what makes the
restaurant vertical distinct uh and
therefore our go to market motion
distinct is really the density that you
see uh with restaurants so there is no
other vertical that's that has that many
rooftops in the US or across the globe
right so if you think about a any City
Block right in San Francisco or Miami or
wherever it might be you may have a pet
store you may have a drugstore right you
may have um a salon then you'll have
four restaurants so it's the really the
only vertical where the density is
really Compact and we've leveraged that
to our advantage and because of that
density what really matters to a lot of
restaurants when they consider new
technology purchases or any purchase for
that matter right is social proof and
and that's been consistent with every
business that I've been a part of that's
that has s sold into and serve smbs
right social proof is incredibly
important and it's even more important
the restaurant vertical because of the
density so we have uh with our sales
organization I I'd call it you know 80
75 to 80% are field-based sales trips
where they are in the market they own a
geography and they are the trusted
advisor to the restaurant space in in
their patch like as we like to call it
the balance of our of our new business
team right are inside reps and they they
act in the same role right their role is
not any different their Tams are
different their their territories are
different because they may not have you
know the the density that the field reps
enjoy right or they may have different
areas where it's been difficult for us
to hire so that the inside team has
grown as a percentage of our of our
business and it's and it's become a key
part but if we can find a rep in uh on
the street in a geography that's our
preference right now and we we you know
you can think about how meeting face to
face versus you know remotely might
create an advantage and we've certainly
seen
that super interesting um point of
clarification and then uh reinforce a
point that you had around meeting in
person and the advantages there you
described segmentation and when I um
think about segmentation traditionally
from a software standpoint it's more
about like Revenue opportunity we have
field sales folks that are going after
the the largest revenue opportunity
companies and we've got inside folks
that are going after maybe smaller
companies smaller Revenue opportunities
what I heard is that you all actually do
sort of like restaurant density um so if
you're in New York City you have a
territory rep if you are in the suburbs
of Kansas City Missouri where I grew up
there there might not be a territory rep
there and so the inside folks take care
of the sort of like less densely
populated areas is that the right
understanding yeah yeah the way to think
about that is that doesn't mean the
suburbs of Kansas City are any less
important to us it just there are fewer
restaurants right and so what an inside
rep might have part of Topeka Right In
fact when we first started thinking
about how are we going to serve tertiary
markets where it's difficult to hire can
we serve them with an inside team the
first city we went after was Topeka by
the way ironically uh but you might have
Topeka you might have parts of you know
Lawrence or other parts where like the
density just doesn't justify a field rep
we'll Cobble those together with an
inside team the the the quotas are no
different by the way like that that
inside rep is still going to produce
amount the requisite amount of ARR as a
field rep they're just going to do it
across a different geography and so um
you what what enables us to to have this
model because many of our competitors
don't have a field-based model they have
an inside based model there there are
benefits to that it's a little easier to
scale you hiring hiring is centralized
although today with with the after
effects of coid and and with more and
more folks being remote and hybrid the
talent funnel has opened up considerably
but um you know what what I would say is
you we we try and have in the instances
where um we have enough density we'll
put a field rep what I will tell you is
um what enables all of this for us and I
think this is a differentiator you know
are really our unit economics right and
so there are other businesses that or
other verticals that don't have the
density and that also don't have the
unit
economics to so get the payback that you
need on a distributed Workforce right we
do because of the software plus invented
payments model right and so if you only
have half of that if you only have the
software piece and you don't have you
know you you don't have the AR coming in
or the LTV to justify the expense your
paybacks are GNA it will be out of whack
and so what's enabled this I would say
is both the density that we see in the
tan along with unit economics of our
business which are remarkable those
together have have kind of pushed us
towards this
strategy super interesting uh one one
takeaway that I'll reinforce uh you said
something like you know the advantages
of selling in person versus selling
remote one thing that we did in the
early days of brex was we measured
conversion rates based off of whether a
potential client received an on-site
visit or not um and those that a sales
rep went on site and met the customer
they closed at like a 3X rate you know
so let's say our conversion rates were
something like 15% um from opportunity
to close if if it was a non- inperson
you know opportunity and it went up to
like 45% if we did an on-site um and I
think when the lockdowns happened and um
everyone sort of went uh remote and
inperson interactions were happening far
less there's this like lagging effect
that it seems like these in-person
interactions are happening fewer and
fewer and I think it's a missed
opportunity for many um where you know
getting back to meeting folks in person
whether it's a potential customer an
existing customer uh I I just think the
benefits of doing so are are massive
yeah we we see something similar right
where our conversion rates when we're in
person are higher certainly there's no
doubt that doesn't mean that our
conversion rates when we're not are
materially different they're not but you
know there's there's a reason why or
8020 in terms of field versus inside but
I'll also say again going back to the
density there's so much value if you
think about we've studied quite a bit is
and I encourage companies that I work
with to think about this we we've spent
a lot of time thinking through how
restaurant tours and owners make
decisions how do they select which
software systems they're going to use
how do they select which suppliers
they're going to partner with and so
much of that comes down to this local
called this local ecosystem that
restaurants live within right and what
we're finding is when you can penetrate
that local
ecosystem uh and and and and be part of
you know some cases the fantasy football
league or whatever like when when you
get into that decision-making ecosystem
it's very very powerful right and within
that ecosystem you have the food
purveyors you've got the knife sharpener
you've got you know the equipment
manufacturers you've got all these all
these folks that serve restaurants that
that all work together and it's easier
to penetrate that ecosystem when you're
in person there's just no doubt right
and so we see not only do you do we see
the impact on our conversion rates and
win rates and those sorts of things we
also see a top of funnel right where
we're able to find decisions or find
opportunities that exist that others may
not know about um because we're we're
kind of that again that we're that
trusted advisor within the community
which in in you know the communities
which we
serve and earlier you referenced that
you all on this the the sales and
marketing are sort of in lock step with
one another and you've talked about
these different GEOS where you have
field sales uh folks in territory and
then maybe less densely populated areas
where you don't when you joined toast
and it was 20 million in ARR and um
certainly lower market share than you
have today was were you deliberate about
um segmenting restaurants by either like
the type of Cuisine that they had was
there some segmentation that existed
that you would Target specific types of
restaurants and then a follow on to that
would be were you methodical about this
sort of like Nationwide roll out where
you were like we're now going to attack
the city of Houston and we're gonna do
like a bunch of marketing campaigns and
we're going to put a bunch of boots on
the street and uh we're GNA go after
like that Geo specifically and continue
you know to to the next one in line from
there I guess um uh what comes to mind
yeah there a lot in this one we' spent a
lot of time picking through this I would
say the folks on our sales and marketing
teams that that help us think
through everything from uh you know
resourcing territory planning incentive
structures like I think they're that
those teams that handle that are world
class and all of those elements are you
know the Confluence of those elements go
to answer your question so um while we
didn't early on like when we were
launching um let's just say we're
launching uh Seattle for the first time
you know what we what we
know
is the territory size you give the
rep will dictate your growth
rate right and so while we could have
given our first rep the entire city of
Seattle we we knew that'd be
counterproductive going back to the
density right and so the key is to and
for the sales reps out there they won't
they won't want to hear this right but
it's actually better for them to have a
smaller character right so that they can
work the territory deeper and and be a
mile deeper is a mile wide and so so
that's number one right as we thought
about the incremental reps we added went
from 200 reps to whatever we have today
which is many multiples of that um you
know we were very thought we are and we
are still very thoughtful in terms of
where we put them right because we know
you'll hear us talk about on our
earnings calls the flywheel concept
where we know definitively and we've got
a ton of data to prove this when we
reach a certain certain density level
within a
market our win rates on our top of funel
actually begin to increase and our reps
become more productive and that goes
back again to the density of of the
markets and the fact the aspect of
social proof so if you believe that then
how where you put the next incremental
rep really
matters and so and and we did this um
almost by accident early on where you
know we didn't actually have a rep in
California for many years after we
started right because it was just better
for us to put rep in Boston or you know
we had a really strong Channel
partnership uh with a food purveyor and
they were strong in certain markets
right we saw that hey when we paired one
of our reps and one of their reps in the
market like we were able to accelerate
productivity and so instead of adding
our 51st rep in San Francisco or LA
right well let's just go to put it where
they have reps which might be Chicago or
South Florida so um and that allowed us
to to build the rep coverage that you
need to build a city like in Miami where
you are right now we have dozens of reps
dozens of reps and the and the amount of
Tam per AE in that city is relatively
low they're all very very productive and
I think because those Tams are small
that's why they're productive right
which then enables this flywheel concept
to to come to life so that's number one
like how you design territories where
you put people incredibly important and
it's it's an aspect that I've seen over
the years that's that that doesn't
receive enough attention to be honest
with you um
and number two like the product your
product so for us you know our we got a
like just a world-class product our
customers would tell you that um and the
product kind of dictates the segments in
which you pursue right in a lot of ways
and and we came out with the tosco which
is you know now a legendary kind of
handheld device that allows servers to
take and place orders and take payments
allows them to increase turn times which
which thereby you know drops more
revenue and throughput for restaurants
and so that product which is which is
just an amazing one of our amazing
products but it's a really amazing
product naturally gravitated reps
towards full restaurants right because
it has less of an application for qsr so
in a lot of ways our product dictated
where our refs went in this vast T we
have a massive T others don't uh and so
almost unintentionally they gravitated
towards segments based on the product
and then and the last influence is
really the incentive structure right and
the incentive structure as you know is
is like the biggest lever any head of
sales or cro has it is infinitely
complex right and it has you know we we
seem to are in this iterative process
where we are learning every year what
our teams need and um how the how the
incentives need to be structured to
satisfy what our teams need right and
what the business needs and so it's it's
a very complex process but that is one
where you know it's a huge lever that
you can use to to Really Drive behavior
um you know across the business so
hopefully that answers your question uh
it does and um lots of interesting
takeaways there one analogy that comes
to mind um thinking back in the early
days of brex um a couple things that we
did that really led to our ear
success um was we we were not uh
everywhere for everyone in fact we were
very specifically the first corporate
card for startups and so that's like not
every one that's a specific you know
vertical or subvertical even in this
like broad category of B2B um and we
also primarily focused on San Francisco
when we first launched so we blanketed
the city with first corporate card for
startup Billboards um and one thing that
uh folks may not know brex was not the
first company that came up with the
underwriting model that we were sort of
famous for no personal guarantee and uh
customers could uh uh use their bank
balance to get access to credit um there
were other companies that did that or at
least other company but they weren't
targeted in who they were going at after
and so by branding ourselves as we're a
corporate card for startups and by
really targeting a specific Geo where
you talked about this flywheel of
customers that can start to engage with
other customers um the the likelihood
that we were going to close a deal when
we created an opportunity in San
Francisco compared to even New York
which is a bit of a startup Hub it was
just significantly greater um and so
this isn't um maybe a strategy for
everyone
but this concept of like being
deliberate about who you're going after
and where you are going after often
times can provide uh sort of like
conversion rate Tailwinds that you don't
get if you are everywhere for
everyone totally I I just think it's um
you know which is really understanding
your
Tam and matching your tan with your go
to market strategy right and like our
strategy will not work for others
because they don't have the
characteristics that we that we benefit
from or that we have that we have to
overcome with our
Tam and uh you know early on you know
when we first joined we thought about
data and how we use data to make
decisions and it's I'd call you know
data
analysis u a strength of hours and then
really an advantage right everything
from looking at uh how our team is
performing and what insights we might
discover that can help us further
optimize the business to hey if I'm you
know the curse of our T is that it's so
big right and so if you're a rep and
you're and you cover South Beach right
it's like well where do I start who
should I do I just blindly pull on every
open door or is there a more strategic
way for me to approach my patch and
we've always felt like we could use data
to answer that question and and really
push our team towards the ladder which
is no no there's a way scientifically we
can figure this out like we can tell you
where we you know what what the best
opportunities are within your within
your patch you can combine that right
with your own intuition your local
knowledge we don't want to take that
away but the two of those pieces right
are um when combined are really powerful
so what we we want to get we're getting
to the point where where how we score
our T right and how we take a city block
and and evaluate and value the T within
that city block is something we can do
which which once you can do that right
and you can score let's just say the the
3,000 restaurants in Miami well think
about what you can do then right well
you know it will change how you resource
right and how you build territories and
how you compensate folks and it'll
accelerate
productivity um so underlying all of
this at at toast has been data um and uh
it's it's certainly been an advantage
for us and and we've we've resourced the
business appropriately
to ensure that we're optimizing and
taking advantage of of that
opportunity and you talked about this
sales rep in South Beach uh not knowing
which restaurant to uh sort of Target to
potentially acquire as a customer um
when I think about most software
applications and I referenced this
earlier in the show but uh they're
they're selling to desk workers most
folks that are buying software are
sitting at a computer screen all day and
so the way that you Market to those
folks are things like online ads emails
um and I imagine the strategy is
different for you all so I'm curious
from sort of a demandin perspective how
does selling into restaurants selling
into non- desk workers how how does that
impact your demand gen strategy you know
I um we've got a remarkable marketing
team and and believe it or not uh
majority of our funnel is driven by our
marketing team You know despite folks on
the
ground and I actually think they're more
similar than you might think um one out
of five deals and we've said this
publicly one out of five deals is ref
right and so going back to social proof
like that it's just
um while marketing is a huge part of our
funnel uh we talk to refs all the time
and ask them what's easier what's easier
pulling a a door walking into a
restaurant cold or asking someone to
walk you in you know with them and
so that's a that's a literal example but
there are just you know um more
efficient ways to get in front of the
the folks that you want to get in front
of and we happen to take advantage of it
because we got folks on the ground and
it's who do you know do you know it's
one at this restaurant or hey do you
you're the US Foods rep and we've got a
partnership with them and hey do you
know so and so at X Y and Z can can you
help me get in the door there that's
super valueable
right that's not any you know if I'm
selling software to you know a marketing
VP there are ways to do this the same
behavior the same act a little
differently but but again leaning on
social proof to me is something that is
is critical um we do certainly do you
know kind of offline Market level
field-based tactics from a marketing
perspective that you may not find with
decision makers that are that are in an
office um but we certainly again because
of how we've thought about going to
Market and how we prioritized markets
and zip codes uh there's a bit of the
halo effect right from our brand and our
product as we get as we reach certain
density levels within within a zip code
Le let's go layer deeper on this concept
of referrals it's an area that I think
most companies underinvested which is
leveraging existing customers to acquire
new ones and um is it is it for you all
as simple as the folks in the field that
have developed the relationship with the
restaurant owner whoever is purchasing
uh toast just sort of like asking do you
know anybody in your network that you
can refer me to do you have a more
formal program uh what are you what are
you using to drive additional referrals
you know believe it or not asking still
works right um but but uh most people
don't don't do the bare Min I know I
know it's like it's all you gotta do is
ask so uh and we're still teaching our
team these things but
I would say
there's um it goes a level deeper we
talked about how we think or how we've
studied how folks who who purchase
restaurant software how they make
decisions and what influences their
decision right and we have a very very
robust partnership program in ecosystem
where we've got uh software applications
that we integrate with uh that integrate
the toast that solve certain features
that we may not have right that that a
third party can solve for we have
marketing Partners I referenced US Foods
as a large marketing partner of toast
and so we have a large like kind of
Channel partnership aspect of our
business that is as important as walking
into a restaurant and asking do you know
someone else that might be interested
like there's certainly that element and
if I'm you what we try and teach our
refs and our team is would you rather
again walk into a restaurant colder
would you rather walk into an existing
customer ensure that they're happy right
ask them if they know of someone that
might be in the in the market eight
times out of 10 they do bottom line
eight times out of 10 they do and uh so
that that's something we really we talk
to our team about becoming the mayor of
your town that's that's literally the
words we use those are the words where
we want them to be the mayor of their
patch where everyone in that rest
restaurant ecosystem is aware of who
they are and we're helping them right
and and an example of this is we sell
our Tam is unique because there are a
lot of net new openings every year
similar maybe to brex early on where
you've got you know U new origination of
new businesses create being created
because you're targeting the startup
kind of startup world for us like there
are new restaurants that open that call
toast and say hey I'm opening a
restaurant in three months I'd like to
buy toast well that is valuable to our
partners right because that's a deal
that US Foods or door Dash or you know
any our partners may not know about and
so we can bring a lot of value to them
and so we spend a lot of time we
resources with teams to to help push you
know this referral motion with our team
not not just with our customers but but
with Channel Partners as well and it's
become a super super valuable part of
our business uh it's scaled certainly as
we've scaled and um you know right now
it's you know for us it's hey you've got
let's say you've got 800 restaurants
left in your patch it's like let's
figure out how to prioritize those
800 uh based on what we know about them
based on the last time they bought a
point of sales system based on what who
they're currently using based on the
size of the restaurant based all these
different factors and you can begin to
score them and point the Reps in the
right direction and once they have that
list then it's okay I can either walk in
cold which sometimes you have to right
or who do I know that can help me get in
the door here and that skill is what our
best reps do and that's been a very
consistent motion throughout my entire
care whether it's a toast or or order up
or golf now or Groupon whatever it might
be I love it let's try and still this
down to some simple takeaways for the
folks that are listening when it comes
to leveraging customers and this like uh
concept of referrals so um as we
mentioned at a bare minimum most people
don't even ask like most people most
folks don't ask their happy customers or
customers that they're just signing up
if they know anyone else that's like
them that might realize some value or
benefit from using the product um the
second thing that comes to mind is
referral programs I have seen them work
um I've seen them work in like very
different flavors uh and it's it's one
of those things that it it's not a
one-size fits-all where the thing that
worked for zenitz it would be different
from the thing that worked for brex it
would be different for the thing that
worked for is working for toast um and
so it's different to have sort of this
like one siiz fits-all this is the rep
referral program you use because it's
going to be dependent on what you're
selling who your buyer is and more um
but one thing that I think is easy to do
is when somebody does make a referral
you should reinforce that behavior
positively with a thank you so at a
minimum a sort of after the fact can be
a handwritten note can be some sort of a
gift but you want to like promote and
reward that positive behavior and
oftentimes certainly more oftentimes
than not that will drive more of the
same um and gosh like I remember the
last time I got a handwritten note or a
random like gift as a thank you for
going out of my way for helping someone
and you know this is I think this is
true for both referrals you could even
apply it to things like really positive
social media posts if someone like Raves
about you on Twitter LinkedIn whatever
it is like thank them um that that's uh
almost as good as a referral and
certainly better than like you know paid
advertising on one of those platforms
that uh costs money
so for sure those are some things that
come to mind any other thoughts before
we wrap up on this yeah yeah what I
would say is and a big part of this is
thinking thinking through really two
pieces one is like how can I help the
other person how can I help so if I'm if
I'm part we're partnering with US Foods
how can I help the US Foods rep in my
territory are there deals that I'm in
that he's not he or she is not aware of
how can I help them and that's such a
big part of it because it is two it's a
two-way street and thinking through how
I might help the other person that's
referring business to me is super
important by the way this happens all
the time in the financial services
business right so if you call your
financial advisor and you need estate an
estate planner they refer you right it's
just it's just this whole kind of uh
Network that goes back and forth it and
then number two which I think we do
really well J there's a lot we need to
work on across the business but this is
one area like we test constantly so it
wasn't like one day we sat in a
conference and said ah we need referrals
we should do that let's roll it's like
we we we have really bright people who
are obsessed with these types of
challenges number one and number two we
give them the freedom to test and
iterate constantly right and you know I
I don't know I I don't know if I see
that often enough uh across the
businesses that I see but it's one where
you need to have the flexibility to test
and fail test and fail because you'll
need to do that to find you know
eventually find the winning kind of the
winning
motions
awesome and and when we're talking about
referrals um couple things that uh We've
cited here one is like customer
referrals so folks that are using toast
at their restaurant maybe there's a
network of restaurant owners or chefs
that they can refer uh other folks that
are in their Network you know as an
existing customer of the product and
then another type of referral is the
partners that you've described like US
Foods and the sales reps from those
Partnerships um so lots of different
sort of referral angles uh that that a
business can leverage in the early days
it's probably going to be more on the
customer side um because it's going to
be more difficult I think to get those
sort of like uh third-party sales
organizations to send you a bunch of
business until you're a bit more mature
um that's right we we could go on for a
lot longer uh in the interest of time
we're actually going to skip over some
topics and we're going to go uh straight
to talking about you a little bit which
uh might might be slightly uncomfortable
because you're a humble guy but uh I
just want reinforce something that I
said uh at the beginning of the
conversation you have really unique
experience at toast in that you've
progressed your career from a very
senior level inside of a company that
has also realized incredible growth
during your 10 years so you started as
SVP of sales you you expanded the the
sort of like Strate how strategic a role
was to svb of sales and GM of a a Core
Business unit now your cro of the
company and while it's common for folks
that are starting in more Junior roles
whether it be AES sales managers sales
directors to realize really exciting
career growth inside of a hypergrowth
company like toast I rarely see it
happen at the most senior levels um in
fact you know I mostly see cro being
topped as companies enter into new
stages of growth rather than being
promoted from non ice non sea level
positions like uh you were able to
realize so what do you attribute your
success and ability to accomplish this
to ah gosh there's so much in this one
um number one you have to be in the
right opportunity right and so you know
I've been you know my time at toast has
been
remarkable not only because of what
we've accomplished as a team but because
of the opportunities that the business
has given me and our teams to grow you
have like the environment you're in has
to be one that supports what we call
doability or or the ability to grow
within the company right not not all
businesses are like that right that's a
key component we talk about all the time
we feel like the most lethal folks in
business are what we call business
people that can sell right and like that
combination is is um we think incredibly
powerful um and and really as a as a in
your in your career if you think about
your career
right uh and your your potential as a as
a leader or a whatever it might be yeah
potential is really the the the product
of your own ability right and the skills
that you have and your work ethic and
all of those different things that are
innate to an individual plus the times
the opportunity that you're you're
within so the size of the opportunity
and the folks you work for in the
environment is is really a big part of
it and so for the folks out there like
you got to think thoughtfully about that
okay that's number one number two
I've um you know I've never thought
about my next job or the next role
within a company I've never and I tell
that people think I'm crazy I'm like
this advice may not be for you but my
focus has been two things just always
exceeding expectations always delivering
and over overd delivering every time
always and doing that right um the right
way right and and really being
thoughtful about how the inputs impact
the outcome because ultimately you scale
the inputs not the outputs right and so
the folks who get top the folks who
don't grow the folks who are solely
focused on outcomes and not how those
outcomes are produced which is really
where the value is created okay um and
and I think
along that you have to have a curiosity
right um or or a mentality of continuous
Improvement in order to grow and learn I
learn every day I learn from our team I
learn from our executive team I learn
from our customers I learn from I'm
constantly
learning and I'm open to learning I want
to be I want to be taught I want to
learn I want to develop and
so you know I'll talk to folks who are
growing in their careers at toast and
you know um I kind of stop them
sometimes like just I want you to focus
on being the absolute best have the
absolute absolute best Discovery right
have the absolute best closing
process uh help your teammates if you're
a
manager coach your team be a coach don't
be a deal Chaser we talk about it all
the time right so um it's really like a
very simple focus on on on on what you
produce and how you how you perform
against
expectations but not just in how did I
perform to quota it's how did I actually
deliver the numbers because that's what
you scale and generally if you do that
if you perform well exceptionally well
you're curious you're learning you're
growing you're improving and you're in
the right environment your career your
career will grow it certainly will grow
at toast right I think I think we had a
stat um recently here where like
25% of our sales organ which is large
right it's a big number had been
promoted in the last 12 months and and I
talk about the environment at toast we
promote from
within like we in in well that's for a
couple reasons one it's the right thing
to do right
two when we're trying to hire reps or
managers and we're competing against
other companies this is you know earlier
on when when people didn't know who
toast was or what we did or you know
that sort of thing um we needed a value
proposition right that convinced that
allowed us to convince folks to join our
company and part of the value
proposition which is still core to our
proposition today is uh you're going to
grow your career at toast faster than
anywhere else because we're not afraid
to give people opportunity that don't
have necessarily the background or the
experience for it some of our best sales
reps were School teachers or have come
out of the military or have uh come out
of the restaurant industry not folks who
have had many years selling you know for
for other businesses and they join us
because they want to they want to learn
they want to grow they also want to grow
their careers we we we value promoting
with from
within um and that's that is really
attractive to a lot of people and so
again going back kind of the environment
you're in you have you know if you want
to grow your career a I'd go to a growth
business and B be a one where that they
really value promoting from
within yeah there there's uh so many
great insights uh contained within those
comments a couple that stood out um one
was around maybe just like advice for
folks that are ambitious and looking to
grow their career quickly one thing to
solve for it's a lot of the way that
you've described the environment at
toast find a growing environment with
the philosophy of promoting from within
and if you can associate yourself and be
successful
in a company with those Dynamics you
will progress your career um and then
the second thing that stands out um you
know uh we want to be totally honest
here throughout my career I have thought
about sort of like what's what's next
and you know slight slight Nuance
between the two of us there that said um
you mentioned something around like over
like just constant paranoia and focus
around overd delivering and exceeding
expectations is just like the way that
you sort of um approached uh the role or
roles that you've been in and one thing
that's uh uh slight Nuance to that that
that is the way that I have thought
about um my career and and advice that I
provide is to just never be
satisfied and a couple different
manifestations of that you know when I
was in AE and I got to 100% of my
monthly quota I think what I saw a lot
of my peers doing was sort of like
laying on off the gas at that point um
and you know maybe sandbagging even
until the following uh you know
measurement period whether it was a
month or a quarter and for me like I
just stepped on the gas like give me
200% give me 300% yeah like never
satisfied with the amount of you know
Revenue I was bringing in or like
meeting the expectation uh of quota as a
sales rep and then the other thing that
I see happen um somewhat regularly is
often times when people realize a
promotion whether it's SDR to AE it's
this thing that like they've been
working on for 12 months and like
finally like all that hard work has uh
paid off in the form of becoming an AE
it can be an AE becoming a sales manager
like years of work wanting to get into
leadership finally I'm like a a sales
manager and I see folks that are sort of
satisfied with that new position within
the company because they've worked so
hard for it
and I I think like you know um the
advice that I provide and certainly the
way that I approached it was this is
just the beginning like the second you
become satisfied with your position
you're going to stagnate um and so just
like constantly wanting uh for more and
not being
satisfied yeah that's exactly right um
you know it's it's really it's really a
pride and
competitiveness characteristic I think
of like you got to prove yourself every
day you got to re approve like every day
is an
opportunity to to reprove what you what
you've accomplished and what you can do
like you can never settle ever right and
and I remember early on I started my
career as a bdr right and then sold and
then became a manager
and I've always approached it as aside
from hitting my
number did I make the business better
somehow was there one thing that I made
the business better or my team better or
someone be Beyond just myself what did I
do to improve the broader Enterprise or
institution and that's always always in
the back of my mind what am I doing
right now I'm G to look back at last
quarter or last month what did I deliver
that made a difference right and and and
the only way to have I think that um you
know that that kind of mindset is if you
take a lot of pride in what you do and
you're fiercely competitive not
competitive in the way where damn I want
to beat you in terms of performance
we're going to compete but like I want
to be the best right at everything that
I do and I'll work tirelessly to to do
that and I may not be today but give me
enough time I will figure it out and I
will work and work and work and work
until I feel like there's nobody better
than me and that's that's just mentality
that you got to have right um which
drives the continuous Improvement The
Continuous learning it drive skill
development and um you know so someone
once told me the um this like someone I
forget who it was they did a study on
leaders and they were trying to reduce
leadership into characteristics right
and be to
predict who who might be a great leader
whatever successful person down the road
obviously a growth mindset is part of it
but it was this combination of
incredible
competitiveness paired with
humility right or low self- needed like
the combination of those two is is is
lethal right and so you'll never hear me
say me or I I just don't I just don't
believe in it and I don't it's not about
me but I like we want to win man we want
to be better than anybody else and when
I if I go to a conference or I'm
partnering with other C or other
Executives and hear that they're doing
something better than us it like
irritates me right we'll go figure it
out and so there's like this driving
competitiveness that you got to have I
think which will become the engine right
the motivation that you need to continue
learning to you know to continue kind of
you know um honing your
craft I love it and can think of a more
positive or better note to wrap things
up on um so Jonathan really appreciate
the time um so much interesting Insight
in how toast is run as a business and
the way you acquire customers all the
way to the way you've run your career
and and advice that you have for other
folks that are trying to emulate that so
thank you for your time really enjoyed
it uh thanks to all the listeners hope
to see everyone in uh short time
bye-bye